key: butterflies/conversations.butterflies_memory1.loctext 6843582555244348638 v3 Revised
Oh, right!
It's our annual Colmar visit at Atul’s house.
Wow, the whole family is there.
Except me.
Look at uncle Atul.
At the grill, obviously.
Look at your face!
You are covered from head to toe in barbecue sauce.
And... it’s adorable.
Mom is beaming.
She’s so young, but so tired.
Look at her eyes.
Those are the eyes of someone who’s not sleeping.
Nice job, Stella.
Keeping mom awake all night with your baby tears.
...
I’m actually happy mom’s sleeping right now.
She needs the rest.
Plus, I get to talk to you all alone.
And have a drink.
Alright, let’s turn to another page.
Something from the middle.
[showNextMemory]Another picture when we were living in France.
Gwen is in this one.
We're riding our bikes together.
You and Gwen would always outpace me.
Leaving me behind.
I guess no one wants their friend’s little sister running around them.
When I was young, I admired her so much.
Remember, she would disappear for months on end and show up out of nowhere.
I thought she was so bold and amazing.
Mom and Dad loved her.
She was some kind of parent whisperer.
I guess our home felt like her home.
...
Oh... there’s a postcard on the next page.
It’s from Japan!

key: butterflies/conversations.butterflies_memory2.loctext -467380119532535874 v3 ReadyForRevision
This photo album sure makes you look well-traveled, sis.
Listen up because I’m going to read your embarrassing postcard.
-=Ah! Ah! Let me find my famous Stella voice, one second.=-
Dear Mom & Dad & Lily,
My trip has been amazing so far.
I’m even making friends.
-=What a boring thing to say!=-
At this rate, the summer vacation will be gone in a flash.
Last weekend, I went to Shirakawa-go in the Toyama Prefecture.
I took a tour to visit these beautiful rice paddies.
It was an impressive sight.
Next to these incredible houses at the bottom of the mountains.
It was especially beautiful at night with the glow of the moon.
()I met a man on our tour (but not like that, Mom!)
-=Oh, Stella! You perv!=-
He’s an art curator from Germany.
He's creating an art exhibition in Nagasaki.
The tour was in Japanese, so he helped me with some of the nuances.
He gave me his address and invited me to his show.
I miss you all.
And I can’t wait for you to visit me in a few months.
-Stella
p.s. Stay out of my room, Lily!
-=I didn’t!=-
...
Wow.
You were so outgoing.
I don’t remember ever being like that.
So full of life.
I was always a bit… dramatic, let’s say. 
I wonder if you went to see Gustav’s exhibition?
That was his name, right?
We never got to go on that trip to see you.
Dad got sick around that time.
He had trouble walking.
His body was swelling and everything hurt him.
I never understood why they kept it from you.
They probably knew you’d come back as soon as they told you.
To take care of him.
I got to see dad get sicker and sicker.
I wasn’t able to do anything to help.
I still remember your face when you got home.
For a second, it was like you didn’t recognize him.
…
Let’s keep going.
It’s not like you’ve ever shied away from death.
You basically made it your whole world.
I’m sure you've got some pictures of when you moved to Montreal.
Let’s take a look.

key: butterflies/conversations.butterflies_memory3.loctext -476938003294975584 v1 Revised
That’s your first Montreal apartment, isn’t it?
When you moved out of the house to the big city.
My big sister striking out on her own.
Yeah, that place was such a dump.
Sorry, sis.
It was.
You could decorate it all you wanted.
It would always smell whatever your neighbours were cooking.
And you could hear them yelling at each other.
Your rent was probably so cheap.
Plus, you were all alone.
No roommates.
Well, not quite alone… with Daffodil.
Speaking of which, I’m still mad at you for taking the family cat.
I don’t remember us talking that much during that time.
You were busy with work.
I was still in high school, not paying much attention.
I don’t think we had much in common.
Except death, maybe.
For me, after dad, I had to do something about it.
I was trying to shut it out, but it kept coming anyways.
I don’t know how you can deal with it constantly.
Working at the hospital with people at the end of their lives.
Around you, all the time.
Helping those people who are suffering in front of your eyes.
[showNextMemory]There was Summer.
She did not go quick.
That cancer stayed inside her and took its time.
It even gave her some hope.
But it came back harsher.
Mom was devastated.
It’s probably for the best that Rose wasn’t around to see it.
Rose was so kind-spirited and fragile.
Losing her dear Summer would have broken her heart.
I remember going to Summer’s house with mom, with all those plants and that heat.
It was like a sauna.
She said something about the body being like all living things.
Especially plants.
I just remember being mad and sweating a lot.
[showNextMemory]Then, there were the friends you made along the way.
That Giovanni and his wife Astrid.
To hear you talk about them, they were basically your adoptive grandparents.
And the stories that would come out of their mouths!
The cheating, the lies, the heartbreak.
All those headaches.
Can you imagine what Giovanni put Astrid through?
But she was right at his side at the end.
Even if she had moved on.
Even if she had found someone else.
He was her one and only Gio.
Forever.
They both knew that they only had each other in the end.
That’s how I wanna go out, sis.
Holding the hand of the one I adore.
…
I think I need a refill.
Maybe stretch my legs a bit.
I’ll be back in a minute.
Don’t you go anywhere.

key: butterflies/conversations.butterflies_memory4.loctext 3894284516350183132 v2 Revised
Hey, I’m back.
I’m sad to report that there were no cute doctors wandering the halls.
Look at you...you look so frail.
But, even on your hospital bed, you're still gorgeous.
Well, this whiskey bottle is half-empty.
Let’s just go ahead and say you drank the rest.
...
Do you remember that phone call you gave me last year?
You had taken a sabbatical from work.
I had to call the center to learn about it.
“Yeah, she took a few months off. She got some bad news.”
What a weird way to learn that your sister isn’t doing well.
So, you call me two weeks or something after.
It’s maybe two in the morning here.
Your voice was shaking.
I could hear you breathing heavily.
You start talking about the trees around you and the air.
No “Hi Lily!”
No “I’m not doing well.”
Nothing, just talking about the trees and the air.
You said it was cold.
That it felt like death, even over here.
I didn’t even know where "here" was.
It went silent and then you said you’d be home in a few days.
I didn’t know what to make of it.
Were you sleepwalking?
Was that whole thing just a dream?
I was scared.
You came back and told mom and me of your diagnosis.
[showNextMemory]And now, we’re here together.
Mom is awake.
And I’m awake and I’m holding your hand.
If you can hear me...
I love you so much, sis.
…
[darken]You’re not alone in the woods anymore.
We’re here, Stella.
You’ll never be alone.
You’ve never been alone.

key: butterflies/conversations.butterflies_reveal.loctext -6601724813307235609 v0 Revised
I know, I know...
I’m late!
I couldn’t get off work earlier.
Parking in this part of town is a mess.
And this place… it’s a maze.
…
Listen to me.
I’m going on about the parking.
And, look at you…
Are you awake?
How are you holding on?
Can you hear me, sis?
Can you say “Lily is my favourite sister” for me?
…
Well, it’s true.
I’m your only sister, so you don’t have a choice there.
I wish I could hear your voice.
I’d rather have you screaming “Lily, get out of my room!”
I’d rather have you laughing.
I’d even rather have you snoring.
…
Let me come a bit closer.
Mom’s asleep.
It’s late, I know.
Jeez, I’m two hours late.
Sorry again.
No wonder mom’s passed out.
Oh!
I have a surprise for you.
I swung by the house yesterday and got some things.
Well, two things.
First…
Where is it?
There we are.
Voilà.
A bottle of single malt from mom’s “secret” stash.
Don’t worry, I’ll do the drinking and the talking for both of us.
And this…
Your photo album.
It’s got some good ones.
Cute baby pictures!
Big family gatherings!
Embarrassing college parties!
The works!
Let’s start at the beginning.
Stella: the adorable baby.
Jeez, being this cute should be illegal.
Give me a second, I’ll pour myself a drink.
Oh, look at this one.
You’re so tiny.
Where was this taken?
What does it say on the back of the picture?
Colmar, Alsace. 1973.

